The good news is as follows.
If we went for example and started to focus a little bit on the storage parts,
the part where we store all our either data marts
or a fully-fledged conformed dimension data warehouse,
and we decide that we're going to the cloud.
Then, from that actually path,
we have two also important paths.
We can either go cloud-managed or we can go self-managed.
Cloud-managed would be that we actually reuse
the expertise of Amazon which has administered lots of machines.
Self-managed means we just get an EC2 machine and we self-managed it ourselves.
Of course, shall we go this way, the cloud-managed way,
we have a very important advantage because our OpEx goes really
down because lots of our system administrators and DevOps staff will be much less.
For the complexity, actually the good news is we have techniques like infrastructure of
code where we can actually script all our resources.
The downside is that we lose a little bit of control because things are already
pre-configured for us and there might not be room to do like really custom settings.
But hey, if all fails or we need something really advanced,
then we can always go to the EC2.
That's our catchall phrase actually for that case.
So, for the storage,
we will go cloud and then we will go cloud-managed.
Once we go cloud-managed,
actually we have also lots of options.
We have SQL, or no SQL, or files.
We are going the SQL way for the data warehouse.
Actually, if you go to manage SQL,
you will find two products.
You'll find Amazon relational data stores and the Amazon Redshift,
and we are picking this one,
the Amazon Redshift which is SQL based and it's columnar,
and it's massively parallel which we'll explain shortly.